# BONUS_MARES_coastal_ecosystem_services
Scripts and data for the manuscript "From ecosystems to socio-economic benefits: a systematic review of coastal ecosystem services in the Baltic Sea"

These scripts and resources have been used to reshape, extract and visualize information from a systematic literature review on coastal Baltic Sea ecosystem services. The MS is currently under revision and publication information will be shared as soon as the manuscript has been accepted for publication.

Manuscript Abstract: Seagrass meadows, algal forests and mussel beds are widely regarded as foundation species that support communities providing valuable ecosystem services in many coastal regions; however, quantitative evidence of the relationship is scarce. Using the Baltic Sea as a case study, a region of significant socio-economic importance in the northern hemisphere, we systematically synthesized the primary literature and summarized the current knowledge on ecosystem services derived from seagrass, macroalgae, and mussels. We found 1,740 individual ecosystem service records (ESR), 61% of which were related to macroalgae, 26% to mussel beds and 13% to seagrass meadows. The most frequently reported ecosystem services were raw material (533 ESR), habitat provision (262 ESR) and regulation of pollutants (215 ESR). Toxins (356 ESR) and nutrients (302 ESR) were the most well-documented pressures in relation to services provided by coastal ecosystems. Next, we assessed the current state of knowledge as well as knowledge transfer of ecosystem services to policies through natural, social, human and economic dimensions, using a systematic scoring tool, the Eco-GAME matrix. We found good quantitative information about how ecosystems generated the service but almost no knowledge of how they translate into socio-economic benefits (8 out of 657 papers, 1.2%). While we are aware that research on Baltic Sea socio-economic benefits does exist, the link with ecosystems providing the service is mostly missing. To close this knowledge gap, we need a better analytical framework that is capable of directly linking existing quantitative information about ecosystem service generation with human benefit. A video summarizing this project can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1_giLdWX5M&feature=youtu.be
